# What's new in Note Toolbar v1.34?

_Make sure you've updated to the latest version to get all of these changes._

## New Features 🎉

### Ribbon access to toolbars and toolbar items 

Access individual toolbars and use toolbar items from Obsidian's Ribbon:

- In a toolbar's settings, toggle **Add to ribbon**.
  - When the toolbar is added to the ribbon, the toolbar's icon is used (see below on how to add); Note Toolbar's icon is used by default.
  - Clicking/Tapping on the ribbon item displays the toolbar depending on what's selected in the **How to display toolbar** option:
    - _Floating toolbar_, displays a floating toolbar where the ribbin icon is;
    - _Menu_, opens a menu where the ribbon icon is; or
    - _Quick Tools window_, opens the toolbar as a [Quick Tools](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/Quick-Tools) window.
- In an item's **More actions (...)** menu, select **Add to ribbon**.
  - When an item is added to the ribbon, the item's icon is used; Note Toolbar's icon is used by default.
  - Clicking/Tapping on the ribbon item uses the item as if you used it from a toolbar.

**Notes**

- To order items in the ribbon, drag and drop (on desktop) or use Obsidian's settings: **Appearance / Interface → Ribbon menu configuration**
- For convenience on desktop, to edit the ribbon item, right-click on a ribbon icon.
- Removing toolbars or items from the ribbon will remove them immediately, and they won't be added on restart. However, they may still appear in Obsidian's configuration. On restarting Obsidian, they will no longer show in settings.
- Deleting toolbars also deletes their items, which will remove them from the ribbon.
- On tablets, enable the ribbon in Obsidian's settings: **Appearance / Interface → Show ribbon**
- Learn more on the new [Ribbon page](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/Ribbon).
  - If you used the existing ribbon button setting, read the page for help migrating to the new settings.
- _Thank you @Maja-Nune for the suggestion!_

## Improvements 🚀

### Toolbar icon + description

Optionally add an icon and description to toolbars, to help you find and manage them better. Use the gear icon (⚙️) next to the toolbar name field to set them.
  - See and search by descriptions in settings and in _Swap toolbars_ + _[Quick Toolbars](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/Quick-Tools#quick-toolbars-window)_.
  - Icons appear: on floating buttons, in the tab bar, in the Ribbon (if the toolbar is added), on the file menu (if enabled), in toolbar suggesters (including _Swap toolbars_ + _Quick Toolbars_), and in the toolbar list in settings. The icon is suggested as a default for item menus (if no icon is already set).
  - The [Note Toolbar CLI](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/Note-Toolbar-CLI) shows descriptions (using the command `note-toolbar verbose`), and lets you set the icon and description using the `note-toolbar:new` command.
  - _Thank you @moyf for [the suggestion](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/329)!_

### Gallery improvements

> Available in `1.34.11+`

Add Gallery categories as toolbars: Look for the **Add as toolbar** button below most categories.

Now you can add Obsidian's built-in mobile toolbar as _Editor Tools_, which is featured at the top of the Gallery.

Added several Gallery items:
- _Open hotkeys_: Opens Obsidian's hotkeys settings, for reference or changing.
- Items from Obsidian's mobile toolbar now available:
  - _Add cursor above_: Add another cursor above the current cursor.
  - _Add cursor below_: Add another cursor below the current cursor.
  - _Toggle heading_: Toggle the heading level on the current line.
  - _Remove heading_: Remove the heading from the current line.
  - _Insert footnote_: Insert a footnote. 

### Other improvements

- `1.34.11` Desktop support for the `don't wrap items` style; added a `wrap items` style on mobile (in case it needs to be ignored).
- `1.34.11` The `Create toolbar` command creates a new toolbar and provides the option to display it on the current note.
- [Quick Toolbars](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/Quick-Tools#quick-toolbars-window): Now shows toolbar previews.
- Error on entering an empty name for toolbars.
- Callout card style: Added `--ntb-callout-card-max-width` and `--ntb-callout-card-max-width-mobile` CSS variables.

## Fixes 🛠️

- `1.34.11` Toolbar settings: Hotkey settings were not appearing right after enabling a toolbar's command.
- `1.34.11` Obsidian 1.13: Settings empty state _Add toolbar/item_, _Open Gallery_, and _Search_ links were closing settings with nothing happening. They have been change to buttons.
- `1.34.11` Gallery: Fixed case where incorrect items or duplicates might have been rendered in a category.
- Floating toolbars + keyboard: Menus were appearing in the wrong location.
- `Focus in text toolbar` command: The toolbar was disappearing immediately unless "Display for keyboard selections" was enabled.
- Bases/Canvas: `Editor width` style was not using the full editor width.
- Callouts: Breaks/Separators were creating empty cards when using the `card` style.
- Callouts: Colors not working in reading mode.
- Callouts: Toolbar items not correctly aligned in reading mode.
- Settings: Various settings UI fixes for Obsidian 1.13. 

## API

- `1.34.11` `ntb.setProperty` now removes the property if the provided value is `null`.
- `1.34.11` Fixed: Unable to trigger `ntb.toolbar` in `toolbar` position by hotkey without first triggering `ntb.menu` or clicking directly in the editor. [#536](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/536)
- Fixed: `ntb.suggester` was displaying an unneeded error/rejection on close if cancelled.

## Previous releases

[`v1.33`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.33.md) Share individual toolbar items; copy items as callouts; better support for Bases in modals; CLI import command; various bug fixes and more

[`v1.32`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.32.md) Obsidian Community Scorecard fixes + various other bug fixes

[`v1.31`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.31.md) Note Toolbar CLI; Agent skills; color callouts; and more

[`v1.30`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.30.md) Improved phone navigation support; Hotkey improvements; API: ntb.suggester exact, keymap, prefixes options; and more
