What's new in Note Toolbar v1.23?

## New Features 🎉

### Set focus in editor after executing commands

Command items now have the option to set the focus in the editor after running the command. On mobile, this keeps the keyboard visible. (Open the setting by clicking the ⚙️ gear icon.)

Several items in the Gallery (e.g., formatting commands such as _Toggle bold_, _Toggle italics_, etc.) have been updated to use this feature. You will have to re-add these items if you're already using them, or enable the above setting for each item.

### Load settings on change

If your plugin's settings are being synced across devices, enable the **Load settings changes** option to load Note Toolbar's settings as soon as they change.

- If this option is not enabled (default), Obsidian needs to be restarted to pick up changes to settings made on other devices. 
- Toolbars should be updated when syncing has completed on the target device.
- This setting is stored on each device (in local storage). If syncing updates appears to have stopped, review this setting and enable it again if necessary.

### External links can be opened in other views

URIs that are external links can now be opened in new tabs, split views, or in a new window if it is an external link (web URL), assuming [Obsidian's Web Viewer ↗](https://help.obsidian.md/plugins/web-viewer) is enabled. Modifier keys are now also supported.

- If Web Viewer is not enabled, the link will open in the system's default browser (outside of Obsidian).
- _However_, even if Web Viewer is enabled and _not_ set to _Open external links_, it will still use it for the non-default view types.
- The _Modal_ option doesn't work for external links; they will instead be opened in a new window.
- _Thanks @moyf for the suggestion in [#277](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/277)._

## Improvements 🚀

- After hiding the properties section with Note Toolbar, properties now stay hidden across all notes and tabs. [#154](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/154) _Thanks @moyf!_
- Advanced settings for Command, File, and URI item types are now hidden under a toggle (⚙️ gear icon).
- Settings: The _New toolbar_ button is now below the collapsible toolbar section, for easier access when there's a long list of toolbars.

## Fixes

- Settings: Phone: _Folder mappings_ heading text was not full width when there was no collapse button showing.
- Settings: Tablet: Toolbar list collapse was not working (search field was being hidden).
- Settings: Phone: In the toolbar modal, reduced unneeded space above the toolbar's _Name_ field.

## API

Adds a `ntb.setProperty()` method, which lets you update frontmatter easily from any script. 

Examples:

```ts
await ntb.setProperty('Created', moment().format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
await ntb.setProperty('cssclasses', 'myclass');
await ntb.setProperty('A Link', '[[Some Note]]');
await ntb.setProperty('A Number', 1234);
await ntb.setProperty('A List', ['asdf', 'asdf2']);
```

---

## Previous releases

[v1.22](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.22.md): Open in modals, Kanban board support, toolbar rendering improvements

[v1.21](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/releases/tag/1.21.1): Note Toolbar Gallery; add items more easily; native JavaScript support 

[v1.20](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/releases/tag/1.20.0): Swap toolbars; support for audio/images/PDF/video; add a command for any item

[v1.19](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/releases/tag/1.19.1): Canvas support, right-click to edit items, default item for floating buttons, toolbar search in settings

[v1.18](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/releases/tag/1.18.1): Add a toolbar to the New Tab view; Commands to show individual toolbars