# What's new in Note Toolbar v1.30?

_Make sure you've updated to the latest version to get all of these changes._

## New Features 🎉

### Hide Obsidian's top navigation (on phones)

- Choose whether Obsidian's top navigation (view heading) is shown.
  - Actions cannot be individually hidden, but if there's enough demand for this I will consider adding this feature.
- Settings for customizing navigation bars, including the ribbon button, has been moved to the **Navigation bars** section (only visible on phones).
- _Thanks @Xto-tT0 for [the suggestion](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/502)!_

### `Auto-hide` style (on phones)

When added to a toolbar, the `auto-hide` style transitions toolbars off screen when in the _Top (fixed)_. (Toolbars in the _Bottom_ position automatically auto-hide as part of the bottom navigation.)

- Obsidian's **Appearance → Full screen** setting must be enabled.
- This style does nothing when the toolbar is in the _Below Properties_ position.
- Not supported on tablets.
- Use the `no auto-hide` style to disable auto-hide for Top toolbars, specifically on phones.
- _Note that the spacing used by Top-positioned toolbars does not disappear._

## Improvements 🚀

- `1.30.10` Settings: Hotkeys are now shown in item modals (if a command is set); clicking on them opens hotkey settings. A command for the item is created, if it doesn't already exist.
- `1.30.10` Settings: Links to Obsidian's hotkey settings now open with the command already typed in the search field.
- `1.30.08` All IDs for items and toolbars created from this point forwards start will with a letter, for easier targeting with CSS snippets. _Thank you @rainmuseum for [identifying the need for this](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/534)!_
- Item settings: Added a **Move item to toolbar** option.
- Settings: Main settings that are not applicable to the current platform are no longer shown (e.g., phone settings not applicable to desktop are not shown on desktop, and vice-versa).
- Context menu: Renamed the "Tab bar" position to "Top navigation".
- Context menu: Removed _Below Properties_ position for non-markdown files; re-ordered for phones.
- Item settings: Added a link to the [Note Toolbar API docs](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/Note-Toolbar-API) below the JavaScript script field.
- Phones: The `button` style now uses floating nav styling by default.

## Fixes 🛠️

### Toolbars on phones

- Top-positioned toolbars should now be properly positioned, for both floating and fixed appearance options. 
- Bottom-positioned toolbars are now properly positioned, for both floating and fixed appearance options. [#522](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/522) _Thanks @charliecm!_
- Non-markdown files: Top-positioned toolbars no longer creates extra spacing around content.
- Floating buttons now animate in consistently with the Navbar.
- The fade effect under `Top (fixed)` position toolbars should no longer cover the top of the note.

### Other fixes

- `1.30.10` Settings: The toolbar settings modal should now remember its scroll position again.
- `1.30.10` Help: Card text was hard to read in light mode. _Thanks to a bug report from [the Google form](https://forms.gle/j82zHbh5dqLusaWU8)!_
- `1.30.09` Toolbars should no longer be duplicated when navigating between notes quickly, in Reading mode. [#528](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/528) _Thanks @melz!_
- `1.30.08` Desktop: The file navigator should no longer lag when dragging files. [#532](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/532) _Thank you @Maja-Nune for identifying the solution!_ 
- `1.30.06` If the _Display rules → Property_ was set to `tags`, the toolbar was not being identified if it was not first in the list of tags. [#529](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/529) _Thank you @Azurewren!_
- `1.30.06` URI items with empty properties were not being hidden. [#530](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/530) _Thank you @27escape!_
- Empty tab view (Launchpad): Item shadow was being clipped outside of Launchpad area (visible in light mode).
- Phones: Tooltips were appearing on elements below tapped elements. (To fix this, _all_ tooltips on phones are hidden.)
- Phones: Callout card style: The left border of some cards was not being rendered on iOS.
- Text toolbars with no visible items are no longer displayed. [#525](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/525)  _Thanks @Moyf!_
- In Source mode, _Below Properties_ is not shown in the context menu; this position setting now shows a disclaimer. [#523](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/523) _Thanks @mrcray92!_

## API

### `ntb.suggester` exact option

> Available in `1.30.10+`

- Set the `exact` option to `true` to use substring matching instead of fuzzy matching, with results that start with the input string shown first. Default is `false`.
- _Thanks @FelipeRearden for [the suggestion](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/535)!_

```js
// with exact = true, searching for "chess" returns 2 results; by default, 3 results would be returned
const values = ['chess', 'cheeses', '4D chess'];
const selected = await ntb.suggester(values, null, {
    exact: true
});
new Notice(selected);
return selected;
```

### `ntb.suggester()` keymap option

> Available in `1.30.06+`

- The `keymap` option lets you override the key bindings for suggester UI.
- See below for an example, and [the documentation](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/wiki/INoteToolbarApi.Interface.NtbKeyBinding.md) for details.
- When provided, the instructional text at the bottom of the suggester UI is not displayed.
- _Thanks @FelipeRearden for [the suggestion](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/474)!_ 

```js
const values = ['cat', 'dog'];
const selected = await ntb.suggester(values, null, {
    keymap: [
        { key: 'Tab', action: 'navigateNext' },
        { modifiers: ['Ctrl'], key: 'Tab', action: 'select' },
        { key: 'ArrowRight', action: 'autofill' },
    ],
});
return selected;
```

### `ntb.suggester()` prefixes option

- The `prefixes` option lets you provide prefixes that provide suggester results when typed.
  - In the example below: when `#` is typed, a list of tag suggestions will be shown; when `[[` is typed, a list of files will be shown.
  - Asynchronous code (e.g., another suggester) can also be called, which injects its result into the "parent" suggester's input field.
  - If there's only one prefix suggestion, it's immediately returned.
- The `values` parameter is also now optional. If `values` are provided in this context, the `allowCustomInput` parameter is required so that prefixes can be triggered.
- Using tab-completion, suggesters now return the corresponding key, if keys are provided.
- _Thanks @FelipeRearden for [the suggestion](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/discussions/474)!_ 

```js
const values = ['cat', 'dog']; // or pass in `null` if you don't want any values
const selected = await ntb.suggester(values, null, {
    allowCustomInput: true, // not required if values is `null`
    prefixes: {
        '#': () => Object.keys(this.ntb.app.metadataCache.getTags()),
        '[[': () => this.ntb.app.vault.getAllLoadedFiles().map(f => `[[${f.extension === 'md' ? f.basename : f.name}]]`),
        ';': async () => await ntb.suggester(['cow', 'chicken'])
    }
});
new Notice(selected);
return selected;
```

### `ntb.suggester()` improvements

- Trailing spaces are now trimmed on return.
- `customInput`: Made it easy to continue entry by not having to type a space to get the next suggestions.
- `customInput`: Fixed: Any custom input now always shows as the first suggestion, unless it matches an existing suggestion.
- `customInput`: The (first) customInput suggestion is styled differently from the rest.

### Other changes

- `1.30.07` Fixed: `ntb.toolbar` was being removed if "Selected text → Display for keyboard selections" was disabled [#531](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/issues/531) _Thanks @FelipeRearden!_
- Fixed: Dataview + JavaScript: Results should now be output to the editor if `return` is used in an executed script file.
- Improved: Dataview: [Script examples](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/tree/master/examples/Scripts/Dataview) have been simplified to remove use of `async` wrappers; some scripts have been updated to handle errors better. Neko now only spawns one cat at most; running the script a second time removes it.

## Previous releases

[`v1.29`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.29.md) Help on startup; Default toolbar; Web viewer toolbar; Visibility indicators; and more

[`v1.28`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.28.md) Item visibility for Reading and Editing modes; NTB Callout "Card" style; Navbar Ribbon button toolbar; intuitive visibility controls; and more

[`v1.27`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.27.md) Obsidian 1.11 support; hide the Navbar; Floating toolbars; and more

[`v1.26`](https://github.com/chrisgurney/obsidian-note-toolbar/blob/master/docs/releases/en/1.26.md) Selected text toolbars; Tab bar position; toggle native Base toolbars; and more